# Class 42b - Ethics in Tech

## Reading

[Code of Ethics](https://www.acm.org/code-of-ethics)

[Software Engineering Code of Ethics](https://ethics.acm.org/code-of-ethics/software-engineering-code/)

## Ethics in the Workplace
[Amazon workers demand Jeff Bezos cancel “Recognition” software](https://gizmodo.com/amazon-workers-demand-jeff-bezos-cancel-face-recognitio-1827037509)
- Summary: Amazon employees called on CEO Jeff Bezos to cancel the company's contracts with law enforcement and government agencies related to facial recognition technology, citing concerns about privacy violations and potential human rights abuses. They argued that such technology could be used to target marginalized groups and stifle dissent. The workers also asked Amazon to implement transparency and accountability measures, and to ban the sale of facial recognition technology to governments and law enforcement agencies.
- Reflection: This raises several interesting arguments. One is the role that tech like facial recognition can play when used by actors for purposes beyond its original purpose. Of the many emerging technologies in this category, facial recognition is one of the most troubling to me. The technology is innocent enough, I use it to unlock my iphone every day. But it becomes problematic when used in unethical ways. I'm not a big fan of "slippery-slope" arguments, but I think using facial recognition falls in this category. Our privacy has been eroded and for sale since the invention of the internet but that has come with many advantages. Facial recognition use by ICE or law-enforcement is a massive invasion of privacy and personal liberties that only advantages the most dubious mechanisms of our morally questionable law enforcement agencies. This article is a few years old, but I fully support the Amazon employees and shareholders who were protesting and I would have stood with them if I were there.  

## Ethics in Technology
[Ethical dilemma of self driving cars](https://www.theglobeandmail.com/globe-drive/culture/technology/the-ethical-dilemmas-of-self-drivingcars/article37803470/)
- Summary: Self-driving cars will need to make decisions based on ethical considerations, such as choosing between protecting passengers or pedestrians in a potentially fatal situation. Different ethical frameworks can be applied to make these decisions, but there is no consensus on which one is the most appropriate. The decisions made by self-driving cars will have a significant impact on society, and it is important to consider the social implications of these decisions. Self-driving cars will raise new legal and regulatory challenges, and it is important to develop a framework that addresses these challenges. The development of self-driving cars also raises broader ethical questions about the role of technology in society and the need for ethical guidelines to ensure that technology is developed and used in a responsible manner.
- Reflection: Another pretty dated article. Five years seems like a long time for this topic. I'm curious how things have changed on a cutting-edge topic like self-driving cars. I generally subscribe to the moral philosophy of Beneficence which balances benefits and risks/harms and, according to Kant, requires a categorical imperative or moral obligation. The article mentioned studies that estimate that self-driving cars could reduce road accidents by up to 90 percent. If true that really weights the balance of benefits and harms that could happen in these rare cases where automation must make a "moral" decision. So the point is kind of moot to me. However, I tend to side with the three-quarters of participants of the German study agreeing that self-driving cars should attempt to minimize harm to humans over property or animals and also should not discriminate on humans based on age, gender or other factors. The bigger factor is that this debatable ethical question could be a roadblock to safer vehicles that would be preventing human suffering. We could get lost in the weeds and lost sight of the trees. The ethical decisions that get baked into self-driving software is important but reducing suffering by having less human driving error is more important in my opinion.  
